---
layout: post
author: Courtney McBeth
categories: ['Website']
logo: jekyllvial.png
title: Creating a Guide Category
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{site.baseurl}}/css/code_styles/hybrid.css">
<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/highlight.pack.js"></script>
<script>hljs.initHighlightingOnLoad();</script>

I'll arbitrarily differentiate between _topics_ and _categories_ by saying that _topics_ are like super-categories. They have their own pages (linked to under How-To Guides in the navigation bar) and may contain multiple _categories_. None of this is official Jekyll terminology, I just made it up to make explaining this easier.

## Creating a New Topic

Jekyll uses [liquid](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/) to process the HTML templates that make up the website. I've set it up to categorize any post that uses the _landing_ layout as a topic page. For the _sensor integration_ topic, here is the entirety of the file that makes up the topic page:

<pre>
<code class="markdown">
---
layout: landing
title: Sensor Integration Guides
author: Courtney McBeth
categories: ['Communication Protocols', 'Sensors']
logo: adafruit_logo.png
permalink: /sensors/
---

</code>
</pre>

To create your own new topic, follow that format. List any categories under that topic in the _categories_ array and set the permalink to something concise and informative. After you push this new file to GitHub, you should see a new topic in the drop down menu.

## Creating a New Category

If you'd like to create a new category within an existing topic, all you have to do is add the new category name within the _categories_ array of the topic file of your choosing.